1. Find the closest number in an given array
2. Whats is rehasing
3. Can we override wait method in threads
4. Composition and aggregation concepts in Java
5. Custom immutable classes
6. Employee and department classes are there in their employee class implements serializable interface and department is not implemented if we import department in employee then can we serialize department?
7. Deserialize and serialize concept

Difference between Serializable and Externalizable in Java Serialization?


[08/04, 5:58 pm] Sarita Cg: PFB .

Interview Questions :

Core JAVA :
-> String Immutable ( Why ) ?
-> String Operations.
-> Interface and Abstarct Class ( With Example)
-> Overload and Override ( With Example )
-> Constructors
-> Instance, Class, Static, Final explain...
-> This and Super use 
-> A sample program with complexity analysis
-> Exception handling ( With use of Throw and Throws ...)
-> Create customised exception.
-> Design patterns. ( With example implementation )
-> Exaplain package
-> Wrapper classes
-> Explain Enum

Collections :
-> List and Map Difference
-> Implementation of List with different operations.
-> HashMap with implemenation
-> Treemap, Hashmap and Treeset , Hashset Explaination
( A program which will explain implementation of operations on List ) 


Spring MVC :
-> Design patterns
-> Modules
-> Annotations
-> Configuration
-> Difference between Spring Core and MVC 
-> Validation Support
-> Exception handling
-> Spring security
-> IOC Explain
-> Why MVC ?
-> File Upload in MVC with explaination of steps
[08/04, 5:58 pm] Sarita Cg: 1. Introduce about yourself - tech stack that you have worked on - total experience?

2. Features of Java-8? Enhancements of Date API ? what features of java 8 that you have worked on?

3. Tell me the use case where you have used the features like stream / functional interface and lambda ?

4. what is Predicate(Functional Interface) and its use?

5. java 7 vs java 8?

6. why spring boot? spring vs spring boot ?

7. Spring-boot starter template ?

8. spring boot annotation ?

9. what are stereotype annotation ? use of @configuration/@component/@service/@bean and @repository?

10. how to specify the configuration of database in spring boot?

11. how to specify spring security configuration and tell me the approach for spring security for rest ws?

12. spring-boot-profiles? logging configuration ? how remove embedded tomacat ?

13. why microservice architecture?

14. microservices vs monolithic architectures ?

15. should every service is associated with its own database in microservices ? what is merit and demerit of such approach?

- What if two or more services deals with same sql db ? what is merit and demerit of such approach?

16. if service has its own database and want to deal with crud operation tell me the approach for designing such micro-service ?

17. @Restcontroller / @RequestMapping / @Get / @Put / @RequestParam / @PathVarible based questions!

18. what is docker ? what is containerization?

19. how you have used docker in your project ?

20. what is kubernetes? Explain kubectl command ? what is pod network ?

21. experience with mongo-db / no-sql database ? / architecture of no-sql db / mongodb specifically ?

22. docker commands that you have worked on?

23. how to spon docker container? modes of docker containers?

24. information about CG-project and BU discussion
[08/04, 5:58 pm] Sarita Cg: Transaction Management
Module worked on Spring boot/Spring
Running spring boot on tomcat without using inbuild tomcat container
Filters and Interceptors in Spring boot, uses and scenario where we can use them.
If we want to reject an initiated request without actually calling the database and validating it before.
Circular Dependecy/ Mitigation and Solution using Spring Boot
TreeSet Impementation
Hashmap and Hashset implementation
Singleton class/object
How to make an object/class immutable
Stream parellel and sequential processing.
Uses of Stream in Java 8 and what can we +achieve/scenarios
Where do you use steam processing in your current application/architecture.
PreJava8 if we have similar impelemntation of Stream processing or how could be acheive stream processing in Java 7/6
How could be acheive multiple thread execution without using ExecutorSchedule of Java
Concurrency Hashmap and it uses? benefits from HashMap
Can we use volatile variable with Entity Object/Class/Dto.
How can we hide data when we want to read and write data from files.
> I answered "transient" varaibles then more on transient 
> can we use transient variable with Entity Object/Class/Dto.
types of String context
How does inversion of control/DI work when Spring boot initializes
Starting point of spring container intialization
How can we restrict URI locations in Spring to access
How can we manage multiple database with spring boot
if we have primary secondary database then how can we manage the database request 
	> Read request to Secondary DB
	> Write requets to Primary DB

How can we handle session validity in spring boot at the back end
How do you manage session in your current application
Have you worked with JWT? How do we use it
Spring bean scopes and when to use which one and how do we create it.
What is differnce between session bean and request bean

Coding/Logical thinking question
[08/04, 6:06 pm] Sarita Cg: 1. Introduce about yourself - tech stack that you have worked on - total experience?

2. Features of Java-8? Enhancements of Date API ? what features of java 8 that you have worked on?

3. Tell me the use case where you have used the features like stream / functional interface and lambda ?

4. what is Predicate(Functional Interface) and its use?

5. java 7 vs java 8?

6. why spring boot? spring vs spring boot ?

7. Spring-boot starter template ?

8. spring boot annotation ?

9. what are stereotype annotation ? use of @configuration/@component/@service/@bean and @repository?

10. how to specify the configuration of database in spring boot?

11. how to specify spring security configuration and tell me the approach for spring security for rest ws?

12. spring-boot-profiles? logging configuration ? how remove embedded tomacat ?

13. why microservice architecture?

14. microservices vs monolithic architectures ?

15. should every service is associated with its own database in microservices ? what is merit and demerit of such approach?

- What if two or more services deals with same sql db ? what is merit and demerit of such approach?

16. if service has its own database and want to deal with crud operation tell me the approach for designing such micro-service ?

17. @Restcontroller / @RequestMapping / @Get / @Put / @RequestParam / @PathVarible based questions!

18. what is docker ? what is containerization?

19. how you have used docker in your project ?

20. what is kubernetes? Explain kubectl command ? what is pod network ?

21. experience with mongo-db / no-sql database ? / architecture of no-sql db / mongodb specifically ?

22. docker commands that you have worked on?

23. how to spon docker container? modes of docker containers?

24. information about CG-project and BU discussion
[10/04, 9:11 pm] Akshay Dongare: --lti
tell me about collections
comparator vs comparable
iterator and cursor in java
tell me about HashMap
tell me about hashSet 
what is generics? why generics ?
tell about threads
lifecycle of thread in java
use of sleep and yeld methods  
how concurrent hasmap implemented how its thread safe and synchronized.
HashMap vs ConcurrentHashMap
java 8 features 
tell something about java 8 streams 

scopes of beans in spring
default scope in spring 
difference between sigleon and prototype 
why to use spring boot ?
what is dependancy injection
annotations in spring boot 
how to do manual configuration in spring boot 
what is spring MVC
what are HTTP methods to use in Rest APi 
what annotations used to define rest controller
[11/04, 12:23 pm] Sarita Cg: ------Congnizent-------
What is constructors
Types of constructors
How to handle exceptions
What is user defined exceptions
What is jdbc
Types of drivers in jdbc
Steps to connect to database
What is logger
Difference between log4j and log2
What are levels of logger
Lowest and highest level of logger
Inheritance, types of inheritance in java

Challenges you face in spring
Explain spring starter pack
How spring boot application starts
What is restController
What is restMapping
Difference between rest controller and rest mapping
How to deploy spring app on external tomcat
What tasks main method does in spring
What is distributed transaction
Advantages of spring
Disadvantages of spring

Challenges in micro service
What is micro service architecture
Logging in micro services
How to perform end to end testing in microservice
[17/04, 1:14 am] Sarita Cg: What is Association in java?
How can we implement has-a relation in java?
New features in java 8 ?

How can we remove particular elements from collection without using if condition?
Suppose list has elements 1,2,3,4,5,6 and remove 3 this list by writing single line of code.

write a code to calculate sum of all elements of the list. (Use stream API).

Suppose you have int sum=20. and list with elements 1,2,3,4,2,5,2,6
iterate over this list and subtract 2 from sum if list element=2 (write code using stream API)

How to use class object as key in map.
[17/04, 4:31 pm] Sarita Cg: Write a code to check weather number is armstring number or not

What is transactions, hiw to manage transactions in springboot

What are attribute or parameters of transaction

How to declare a rest api telling it return response in json format

What are best practices while using collections

What is use of treemap, linked list, hashset

How to handle exceptions in springboot

What is starter pack of springboot

Which logging framework u have used. What are different levels of logs

What is assertion in log4jl

Annotation for primary key in springboot if id is only one column and if primary key is combination of 2-3 attributes

What is actuator

How do we use / trace / debug issues on production in microservice architecture

What is application context.

What are different ways using which application context can be created

What is basic main config file in springboot

How to use jwt to handle sessions

How to save database configurations in property file while considering security of them

How to configure data source
[23/04, 1:44 pm] Akshay Dongare: what are the features of java 8 ?
what features you have used ?
what is functional programming and what is advantages of it?
what is functional interface in java? why there s only one method in functional interface?
what is default method? why default method provided in java8?
what is advantage of Optional in java 8?
what is polymorphism? give one real time example of polymorphism.
can we override static method?
if method in base class is not throwing exception then can we throw checked exception while overriding some method in derived class?
if no then why? if yes then why?
what id DI in spring ?
[23/04, 5:45 pm] Sarita Cg: 1) Design patterns?
2) You have one string say "sarita" and write a code using stream api to count occurance of each character, like s=1,a=2
3) sql injection?
4) event driven programing?
5) Limit clause avilable in oracle or only in mysql?
6) example of checked exceltion?
7) Is it possible to overload n override static methods?
8) difference between crudrepository and jparepository?
9) types of autowiring?
10) how to read values from property files, in spring boot?
11) how to handle profiling in spring boot?
12) how to handle multiple property files in spring boot?
13) what all different tools u used in current project?
14) what is microservices?
15) components of micro-service architecture?
[24/04, 11:44 am] Sarita Cg: What is class loader? explain types
What is string pool, where in memory it is created
Comparator vs comparable
Array vs vector
Iterator vs enumarator
ArrayList vs linkedList

How do we perform binding in angular
what is component in angular

difference between spring and spring boot
what is spring batch
what is bean, explain its lifecycle and its types
How to handle transaction in springboot
can we use @repository & @transactional on same class
How exactly the transactions are handled using @transactional
what are stereotyed annotations in spring boot
controller vs rests controller
how spring application starts
[26/04, 11:33 pm] Akshay Dongare: -- FIS Global ---
literal pool in java 
what is immutable object? why string is immutable? what is benifit of literal pool?
what is design patterns? what design patterns used for java JDBC?
what is singleton pattern? how to create siglton class?
oop concepts. what is polymorphism and types. realtime use of polymorphism.
diff between interface and abstract class. when to use abstract class and when to use interface.
what is default method? 
what is intern method?
what is strictfp
diff between collections and maps
internal implimentation of hasmap.
default implementation of equals() in object.
when to override hascode()?
difference between arraylist and linkedlist?
way to get concurrent collection before java 8?
what is cursor and types of cursors?
give one name of fale safe iterator.
what is controlleradvice in spring ?
exception handling in spring.
what is there in side java concurrent package?
differene between comparator and comparable. why this methods return int value? what will happen we return 0 for all from comparable, will list sort?
provide defination of comparator method.
what are sterotype annontations in spring?
DI in spring
lifecycle of bean in spring
difference between jsp and servlet
list different implicit objects in jsp 
what is session managment in jsp? how to manage session in jsp?
different ways to access request object in jsp.
list 10 annontations in spring
what is AOP in spring and when to use it?
how we can use git to push code? is it mandatory to get pull from git before pushing changes to upstream? if yes why?
advantages of spring boot.
what is spring boot starter dependancy? what dependancy will be used for web application in spring boot?
different ways to create spring boot project.
what is @Restcontroller. is there any difference between @Restcontroller and @Controller?
can we create rest web service using @Controller?
is it possible to return jsp from restcontroller?
can we keep return type of controller method void?
lifecycle of normal sping webapp, flow of request from client to app and back?
what is difference between @Component and @Service/@Controller? 
when we can use @Component?
[29/04, 11:44 pm] Akshay Dongare: --FIS Global second round--
What will happen if we add objects in hashset but dont implment hashCode and equals.
What are the set methods? Implement Queue class without using any java collection feature.
implement hashCode and equals methods for below class 
String student {
	public String name;
	public String class;
	Double marks;
}
Write lambda expression to filer students whose name starts with a and age between 18 to 20 from student objects list.
How you have implented and used Docker and kubernetes in ur project?
[02/05, 10:42 am] Sarita Cg: ----------------------HCL--------------------------
what is dependency injection, how it works in spring boot
what is lazy loading
how to handle transactions in spring?
what is isolation and propagation?
what is difference between controller and restcontroller
How to configure database in springboot
what is use of DDL-auto in springboot? why we this property in springboot
how to change default server port number in springboot
what is dispatcher servelet?
how to handle transactions in springboot?
how to handle lazy loading in hibernate (without springboot)?
what is view resolver in spring mvc?
what is spring security?
what is jwt token? use of jwt token?
what jwt is preferred over Auth2?
how to handle exceptions in springboot?
what is use of @exceptionHandler annotation?
what all annotations are used with @exceptionHandler in springboot to handle exceptions?
what is entity?
what is difference between entity and table?
[05/05, 1:57 pm] Sarita Cg: What is class loader? explain types
What is string pool, where in memory it is created
Comparator vs comparable
Array vs vector
Iterator vs enumarator
ArrayList vs linkedList

How do we perform binding in angular
what is component in angular

difference between spring and spring boot
what is spring batch
what is bean, explain its lifecycle and its types
How to handle transaction in springboot
can we use @repository & @transactional on same class
How exactly the transactions are handled using @transactional
what are stereotyed annotations in spring boot
controller vs rests controller
how spring application starts